will. turkey is taking a strongly anti-israel position since the war in Gaza began. the country was once Israel Israel's closest Ally in the region, but tires have deteriorated under President Richard Pryor one. his criticized his Western allies over their perceived support for Israel's offensive, but also tried to position turkey as a mediator and Peacemaker. our correspondent Juliet in Istanbul looks now at turkey's role in the current deadly conflict and whether has any potential to steer it in a more peaceful Direction. housing Riot is afraid for his little brothers. you can't imagine the conditions they live in. sometimes it's hard to believe. there's nothing to eat. they're practically surviving on canned food brought in as Aid. on top of that, the bombings continue. there's no sense of security system. ceasefire negotiations have so far that nowhere has them. often feels helpless, but here in Turkey he also senses a lot of solidarity, is one of the countries that provides the most Aid to the Palestinians, and this is well known. but we expect more from Turkish president. pics of Israel's military offensive in Gaza, launched after the October 7th terror attack by Hamas. add on his likened Israel's prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, to Adolf Hitler and praise Thomas, which is classified as a terror organization by multiple entities, as a quote: Liberation group. turkey genocidal policies to do something? isolated, locked. what are the Diplomatic negotiations? largely because of its promised them, which has damaged turkeys credibility in the eyes of Israel. in recent months the Turkish government has tried to pile pressure on Israel. it has officially suspended bilateral trade and applied to join South Africa's genocide case against Israel at the international court of justice. has openly criticized for their complicity in this conflict through their unwavering support for Israel and he aims here to Rally the International Community, but particularly the quote unquote- Global South and the Muslim world around the Palestinian issue. and and he positions, he aims to position himself as the champion of global Justice here. but that's not enough for some in Turkey Trust. I don't want number one, but I think this world also made it clear that turkey is influence over Hamas is also quite limited, unlike the expectations. I don't have noticed that he hasn't much leverage over Hamas, because if Hamas wants to fight with Israel, it needs Iran and if it wants to make peace it needs Egypt and Qatar and in neither situation there is much room for turkey. and despite all efforts to mediate, nobody actually want to involve turkey. add mediation: 81 had friendly relations with the former political leader of Hamas. he was assassinated in July. does he have any sway over the current Hamas Chiefs? not at all. actually, before that, after the removal of Khaled Masala from the Portugal and then after the assassination of islamiya, turkey lost the people that it has real contact with. and as, as the influence between Hamas moves from Portugal to the military Wing turkey is, influence gets more and more or less, as we saw, an average solidarity with the Palestinians at 1:25 with Israel in 2022. how much of everyone's harsh rhetoric translates into actual policy in Turkey? play it at all. he had to change his rhetoric after the public pressured him to do so. that after that was a huge public discontented. a turkey should do something. and even after that, for months he didn't match his rhetoric with actions, and that's until his defeat in March 2024 local elections. that's his first political defeating his entire political life, and one of the main reasons for for the defeat is the perceived sense among his supporters that turkey is not enough. and on after that, if it is kind of started to to match his height and rhetoric with some action, and so in this case, it's not out on pushing it, but it's basically the Turkish public pushing hard on to to escalate. it's not the other way around. and here I think everyone is kind of a victim of his kind, of a prisoner of his own power, because 40 under his leadership is not no longer a medium power, it has become a great power. it's one of the most important countries that the global level and and he convinced his followers to that. and now his followers, as we have seen the videos, are merely asking: I mean, if you are so powerful, why are you doing anything to stop? but the real answer is: too much as long as Israel has the backing of us and Europe. but I don't can't put on country to all his narrative for the last 10 years at least. so he's a little bit Corner than making a heart attack but not really offering anything in The Far Side. so do you think that turkey realistically eventually sees a role for itself in post-war Gaza and what might that look like? involved in the post-war negotiations? I think he's. he's trying to make it increases, leverage, Visa with the Palestinians. I think he sees that is right, do not trust him, and that's pretty sure, and he can't change that. but he noticed that his influence or Palestinians are also very limited. so he's kind of strengthen that side of his role and he wants to get involved into the table as kind of a protector of the Palestinian interests, as I mean Israel. so he says: I am on the table as protector of the Palestinian interest. that's one way of being involved in the conflict and probably- and that's in the long term- if all things settle down, there will be a huge task of rebuilding Gaza and I'm sure he has his eyes on that big, lucrative construction present. that's waiting 776.